[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Physicists, great thinkers,
and philosophers in history,
as well as brilliant
scientific minds,
have spent their entire lifetime
striving to understand how
an invisible field of
energy and information,
as well as the forces of nature,
unify the material world.
I want to demystify
the realm of matter
and introduce you to a roadmap
on how to connect to a realm
beyond our senses
that you can only
arrive at as an awareness,
or pure consciousness,
dissociated from
everything material.
The world of space-time is
the realm in which we live.
It's our known universe.
The world of time-space cannot
be experienced with our senses,
and its principles and
laws transcend the laws
of three-dimensional reality.
In this realm beyond
space and time,
there are other laws that
once you understand them,
it will help you to create
from the quantum field,
instead of from
matter, producing
greater effects in your life.
I'm your host, Dr. Joe Dispenza,
and in the previous episode
we journeyed into the
quantum model of reality.
In this episode, I want to
further your understanding
of energy, frequency, vibration,
information, consciousness,
and the realm of thought.
Take a look around you, and look
at everything in this material
world.
You can see everything that
has form and structure that's
material, and it has
height and depth and width.
And because everything material
has height and depth and width,
we call this our
three-dimensional world.
And the world of
matter we can only
experience with our senses.
Now, let's talk about time.
We experience time
in a very linear way,
because we have a definite
past that you can remember,
and the past is a series
of separate moments,
and those heightened
emotional moments become
the definition of our past.
Once we live in the
past in linear time,
in the present moment, as
the brain is an anticipation
machine, we're always trying
to anticipate the future.
And in a sense, we have
a linear line of time--
what physicists
call a world line.
So then we remember the past.
We can predict the future.
And we experience time
as something very linear.
In this realm of the senses,
where we experience separation,
that separation can be defined
as duality, or polarity.
If I'm standing
here and I notice
I'm separate from
something over there,
if I want to move from
one point of consciousness
to another point
of consciousness,
if I'm local as a
body, I have to move
my body in
three-dimensional reality
from one point of awareness
to another point of awareness.
And as I begin to move through
space, or collapse space,
I experience time.
So then because I'm separate,
I have me here and you there,
and if you look
different than me,
or you appear as
something unfamiliar,
I experience more separation.
And by the same
means, if I'm here
and I have my dreams
somewhere in my future,
my brain automatically
calculates
how long it's going to take
for me to arrive at my dreams.
Let's see-- took me this long
to make this amount of money.
I have to go to my job,
maybe work some overtime
to pay my bills to
get what I want.
And so as we begin to set goals
for ourselves, we have dreams.
We have visions of our future.
The way that we get them is
we move our material body
through space.
And it means
everything takes time
in this three-dimensional
reality.
And this is the realm
of Newtonian physics.
The Newtonian world
has everything
to do with the known,
or the predictable.
And because of Newton and
his mathematical equations,
we can begin to understand
that everything in the material
world can be predicted.
So then Descartes,
back in the 1700s,
was very interested
in understanding
the realm of matter and
the realm of the mind.
And what he did was he
separated everything material
and put it into the
world of science,
or what we call the
sphere of science.
Everything that was
part of the mind
was too convoluted
and too unpredictable,
and he left that to the church--
the sphere of religion.
As Descartes created
this duality between mind
and matter, when Newton
came along and discovered
his scientific formulas,
he basically proved
Descartes' theories
that the outer world,
the large universe,
was very predictable.
What's interesting about
polarity and duality
is we create from polarity
and duality all the time.
If you took away sight, hearing,
smelling, tasting, and feeling,
you would have no experience
of the three-dimensional world.
So think of your senses
as something that plug you
into three-dimensional reality.
By the same means,
when you begin
to interact in
your external world
and you see something
that you want,
the fact that you notice
that you don't have it
creates separation.
So because you don't have
it, you experience polarity,
or duality.
And the next thing we do is we
start to think about, or dream
of getting it.
And if we start to
think about and dream
of some future, the
next thing you know,
you see yourself
experiencing that future.
But when you come
back to your senses
and the object or the
experience isn't there,
we experience more separation.
Now, throw in the hormones of
stress, the hormones of stress
heighten the senses and
cause us to focus more
on the material world.
Then we always try to force
outcomes, control outcomes,
predict outcomes, fight for
outcomes, manipulate outcomes.
So then if you want to
get what you want faster,
what you're going
to do is to move
from one point of consciousness
into your future, your dream--
another point of awareness.
And what most people
do is they move faster.
So if they think that they're
moving faster through space,
that it'll take less time.
People are rushing all the time
in a program into a future,
and never enjoying the moment.
So this world of
the senses is where
you develop your
personality, your identity.
And that personality
and identity
is basically the memory
bank of your neocortex--
the known self.
Now, if we are going to
create from the field
instead of from
matter, then we have
to disassociate from
everything known
in this three-dimensional world.
And when we begin to dissociate
from everything material
in this
three-dimensional reality
and we begin, in the meditative
process, to close our eyes
and disconnect from
the environment,
to get beyond our bodies and
fall into the present moment
and move out of that timeline
of the predictable future
and the familiar
past, the moment
we can become nobody, no
one, no thing, no where,
and no-- time that is the moment
where taking our attention off
of everything known.
And as you continuously
work for that present moment
and open your awareness, as
you keep doing that and sensing
space, sensing energy,
sensing nothing material,
the act of opening
your awareness
begins to slow your
brainwaves down
in your thinking neocortex.
And if you're not thinking
about your back pain,
you're not thinking
about your problems,
about your coworkers,
you're not thinking about all
the errands you need to run,
you're not thinking
about your cell phone--
if you're no longer activating
those circuits in your brain,
as you suppress this
neocortex-- the memory bank
of your identity--
you move from beta
brainwave patterns
to alpha brainwave patterns.
And as the brain
starts to integrate,
as the brain starts to
become more coherent,
and as the heart starts to
resonate in more balance, all
of a sudden now,
your brain slows down
into low alpha, and
ultimately into theta.
And in theta, there's
very little activity
in your thinking brain.
And in a sense, the door
between the conscious mind
and the subconscious
mind is wide open,
and you are conscious in
your subconscious mind.
And in this realm, we call
this the fourth dimension.
Why?
Because Einstein said
E equals mc squared.
When you take matter
and you bring it up
to the speed of light, it's
going to turn into energy.
So the ceiling of this
three-dimensional reality
is the speed of light.
And when you become
nobody, no one, no thing,
no where, and no time,
that's the moment
you're no longer your body.
That's the moment you're
no longer your identity.
That's the moment you've
dissociated from everything
known, and that is the moment
you are pure consciousness.
And in a sense, you
are on the bridge--
the door to the quantum field.
This is when you become
transcendent of your identity.
We call this getting
beyond the self.
When we get beyond ourselves,
we move from a narrow focus--
an object focus-- to what's
called an open focus,
or a broad focus.
We take our attention off
of everything material--
objects, things, people, places.
That's the particle
in quantum physics.
And we begin to open our
awareness to space, to energy,
frequency, to information--
the wave in quantum physics.
We move from the
material world of matter
to the immaterial
world of anti-matter.
We move from the
3D Newtonian world
to the fifth-dimensional
quantum world.
We move from the realm of
the predictable to the realm
of the unpredictable.
We move from the realm of
space-time to the realm
of eternal space to the
realm of time-space--
a realm where
there's eternal time.
We move from a state of
separation, duality, polarity--
or what we call locality--
to a state of unity, oneness,
wholeness, non-locality.
There's nothing material there.
The realm of the known to
the realm of the unknown,
from limited possibilities
to unlimited possibilities,
from the universe
to the multiverse,
from the domain of the senses to
the domain beyond the senses--
and that's the realm
we want to create from.
Once you move through
this eye of the needle,
you can't bring your problems.
You can't bring your disease.
You can't bring your pain.
You have to get beyond
all of those things
and enter as pure consciousness.
Now you can enter the
realm called time-space.
Now, time-space is an
interesting concept,
because in this realm of
three-dimensional reality,
there's an infinite
amount of space.
Space is eternal.
And as we've been saying,
we experience time
as we move through space.
My material body experiences
three-dimensional reality,
and as I move through
space, I experience time.
In the quantum, this
realm of time-space,
there is an infinite
amount of time.
Time is eternal.
Now, think about this.
What could you
accomplished in your life
if you had an infinite
amount of time?
If time was eternal,
you could get
everything done you needed to
get done, and many more things.
As long as you can think of
them, as long as you could
come up with a new
possibility, you
could get that done as well.
So if you had an
infinite amount of time,
you'd have infinite
number of possibilities
that you could accomplish.
And that is the quantum world.
There's so much time.
Time is so eternal
that all possibilities
exist in the eternal now.
Now, in this realm, you can't
experience it with your senses.
You can only experience it
with your consciousness,
or your awareness.
This is the realm of
frequency, of energy,
of vibration, information.
This is the realm where you
transcend everything separate,
and you begin to experience
oneness, wholeness, connection
to something greater.
In this realm of time-space,
you've transcended space-time.
So in this realm,
there is no space.
Now, if there is
no space, then I
can't move from one
point of consciousness
to another point
of consciousness,
which means there is no time.
In fact, it is beyond
space and time.
There's one, long,
present moment.
Now, when you create from the
field instead of from matter,
you can exert greater effects
on the nature of reality.
So if you're in the
realm of thought
and there's no separation,
then every single thought
that you think has a frequency.
So if you're thinking
thoughts that
are connected to emotions
like anger or frustration
or pain or suffering or
guilt, those thoughts
produce a slower frequency.
And because they produce
a slower frequency,
that causes us to feel more like
matter, and less like energy.
And we have to, in
this realm, manage
our thoughts and our awareness.
Every single emotion
produces a frequency.
And the slower the frequency,
the slower the vibration,
the slower the
outcome in manifesting
three-dimensional reality.
The faster the
frequency, the more
elevated the emotion,
the closer we
are getting to
the unified field.
And what we tell our
student body to do
is to tune into a frequency
of wholeness and oneness.
Become more aware of it.
Stay connected to it
moment by moment by moment.
As they begin to open
their awareness and tune
into this frequency,
once they can feel it,
once they can
experience it, once they
can become more aware
of it, every time
they have an
experience of it, they
begin to lay down
circuits in their brain
to begin to perceive
more of it the next time.
And in a sense, they're
wiring their brain
to become connected to
that invisible field.
So how much of your waking
day are you aware of matter,
and how much of your
waking day are you
aware of energy and information?
Most people put all of
their attention on matter,
so their brain is wired
for the material world.
Now, the quantum field--
if you're unaware of it,
it doesn't exist for you.
And if you're trying to
experience it with your senses,
then you're in the habit
of looking for something
from this material world.
And it's breaking the habit and
being able to, as an awareness,
linger in this field and
begin to connect to it.
And then ask yourself, is
there more love to experience?
Is there more oneness, more
wholeness to experience?
And just like listening to
music and paying attention
to the subtleties, or becoming
more aware of something,
as you become more aware
of these frequencies,
every experience that
you have brings you
closer to that unified field.
Now, when your consciousness can
begin to merge with the greater
consciousness--
the consciousness,
the intelligence of
that unified field--
when you continue to surrender
some aspect of your limited
self to join the greater self,
if you can surrender completely
and let go of your identity
and become more of it
and less of you, if you were
to continue this process--
now, think about this.
We've been saying that in
this realm of space-time,
the separation of two points
of consciousness creates time.
Well, the more you're connected
to this unified field,
and if your consciousness
is completely connected,
or surrendered or dissolved
into a greater consciousness,
and there's no
separation between two
points of consciousness,
then there is no time.
Which means, then, if you're
creating from the field
and you're connected to this
frequency, or to this energy,
now you no longer play by the
rules of Newtonian physics
where everything takes time.
Now you're playing
by the quantum.
And if you're creating from that
energy called source energy,
from the unified field that
is connected in organizing
everything material, then
you can exert greater effects
on the nature of reality.
And now, when you're
connected and you're
creating from the field,
you're no longer trying.
You're no longer wishing.
You're no longer wanting.
You're no longer hoping.
You feel so whole you feel
like it's already happened.
And if you're creating from the
field instead of from matter,
now you're beginning
to warp space and time,
and the event comes to you.
And all you have to
do, then, is create
a vibrational match
between your energy
and some potential
in the quantum field,
and it only requires
two things--
a coherent brain,
and a coherent heart.
Now, if every thought
has a frequency
and you're creating
from lower frequencies,
then you're creating
from duality or polarity.
Once you get energy
into your heart--
and we said all along that this
is the center that connects you
to the field.
Once the heart begins to
beat in a coherent way,
you start feeling connected
to something greater.
Now, if you can create
a clear intention
with a coherent brain,
that's the signal
that you're sending out.
Now, every thought
has a frequency,
so if you're beginning to create
with the frequency of falling
in love with your
creation, feeling grateful
that it's already
happened, beginning to bond
and connect with your future--
if the feeling draws
the event back to you,
as long as you can
bond and connect
to that emotion
in your heart, you
begin to draw the
experience to you.
So if this is the realm where
all possibilities exist,
if this is the
realm where there's
an infinite amount
of time and you
can merge your consciousness
with a greater consciousness
and create from the field
instead of from matter,
then you can become the
consciousness of anyone.
You can have anybody.
You can live anywhere.
You can own anything, and
you can be in any time.
And since all possibilities
exist in the eternal now,
there is no past.
There is no future.
There is the eternal
present moment.
If moving from space-time
into time-space
we have to pass through a
bridge, or through a portal,
then the fourth
dimension is time.
As we begin to move into the
present moment and we move
into time-space, we move
into the fifth dimension--
the multiverse--
where there's infinite
possibilities-- the unknown
instead of the known.
That's where all
potentials exist.
Now, this is a good way for
you to understand space-time--
the realm of the
three-dimensional world,
the Newtonian world--
and the bridge to the quantum--
fourth dimension--
moving to the realm
of time-space, where there's
an infinite amount of time,
or the quantum world.
Once you get there, then
there's infinite possibilities,
and it makes sense
you can become
the consciousness of anybody,
of anyone, anything, anywhere,
in any time.
So as you move from one
point of consciousness
to another point
of consciousness,
you move through space
and you experience time.
Now, if you are the source
of all consciousness,
you are the all and all.
If you are creating
from that place,
then you can't move anywhere.
The only way you
move through time
is by changing your
vibration, or your frequency.
And as you move through time
and change your frequency,
you experience
dimensions, or spaces.
Now, let's give you an example.
You're in the realm where
you're beyond space and time.
There's no place to go,
because there's no space,
and if there's no
space, there's no time.
There's just one, long moment.
And you want to begin to
experience other possibilities.
Well, the only way you are
going to move through them--
instead of moving from
one point to another,
speeding up or slowing down--
you just change your frequency.
And as you change
your frequency,
or you change your thought, and
every thought has a frequency,
and you can tune into the
frequency of that thought,
or that possibility, you
begin to move through time,
and you experience
spaces, or dimensions.
I was interested
in what connects
the physics of this field
to the biology of our brain.
And I spent quite a bit of time
researching the pineal gland
and all its magical elixirs,
and how all those chemicals fit
into the same receptor sites
as serotonin and melatonin
in the brain, but they produce
a lucid, or transcendental
experience.
And I started to realize that
this was the latent system that
allowed frequency and
information to be transduced
into imagery in our brain.
And it is that
latent system that
begins to create
the inner world,
that transcendental moment.
And so I was
sitting on my couch,
and I just closed my eyes
and I was watching the fire,
and my brain was
kind of in trance.
And as I closed my
eyes, I said to myself,
where are you, anyway?
And I was talking
about the pineal gland.
And I was searching
with my awareness
on where it was in my brain.
And the next thing you know,
I see this little gland
in my brain releasing
all this milky substance.
And the next thing you know,
I see this beautiful pocket
watch, but it was glistening.
It was bright and lucid.
And I saw the
hands, very quickly,
move backwards in time.
So now I'm moving through time.
And as the hands
move backwards, I'm
standing over myself
as an awareness--
not with my body,
but I'm over my body
as a nine-year-old child.
And I was laying on my
back, and I had the covers
right up to my nose.
And my mother just left the
room because I had a fever.
Now, when I was a
child, I loved fevers.
And I loved fevers
because it would
create these very lucid
and transcendental moments
and experiences.
And so my parents asked
if I wanted any medication
for the fever.
From the time I
was little, I never
wanted the fever to go
away, because I was always
super lucid.
I was in the fever,
and I was surrendering.
And the next thing you
know, my awareness--
Joe Dispenza from
the current now--
is observing Joe
Dispenza from the past,
a nine-year-old child.
And I'm watching the
nine-year-old child sort
out time as this checkerboard
of possibilities,
but it's three-dimensional.
And I'm looking at this
young boy, mystified
that a nine-year-old child would
be thinking about these things,
and I fell in love with him.
I just fell in love with him.
And it was me--
the current me-- falling
in love with that guy
that was drawing me to me.
And all of a sudden, I felt
this tremendous amount of love,
and I knew that what my destiny
was-- to get to the place
I currently was.
Then all of a sudden, the
time piece appears again,
and the hands of the clock
begin to move forward.
And now I'm moving
through time again,
and I'm going to experience
another dimension,
another space.
But now I'm the future me.
I'm walking in my backyard
as an exalted version
of Joe Dispenza.
I am connected to everything.
There's no separation between
me and the material world.
My heart is wide open, feeling
so empowered and so awake
and so aware.
And all of a sudden I
saw this beautiful woman
that was no bigger than
this in a white gown--
radiant.
And there was another woman
that was kind of protecting her.
And the moment I looked
at her, she looked at me,
and I felt this
incredible amount of love.
She was sending a
frequency into my body,
and I realized in that moment
that there was more love
to experience than I was
already experiencing,
and I was feeling pretty
good at that time.
And then I realized
why I was there.
Now, I'm the upgraded
version of my future self.
I've traveled through time.
And all of a sudden,
I look at the window,
and there's my present
self, moments before I got
on the couch, washing dishes.
And as I was standing there
as my upgraded version,
I fell in love with that guy,
and I felt such love for him.
And while I was washing those
dishes, all of a sudden,
in that moment, I
felt this kind of love
in my heart out of nowhere.
Now, here's an example of where
my future self was falling
in love with my
present self, and it
was my future self that was
drawing my present self to it.
There's a future
you that already
exists that's more enlightened,
more knowledgeable, more
wise, more loving, more caring,
more magical, more mystical
that already exists.
And the only way you're going
to get there is to become it.
And as we begin to
overcome certain aspects
of our limited self
over and over again,
we actually become
that future self.
Now that I've shown you the
difference between space-time
and time-space, are
there latent systems
in your brain that
can be activated which
will connect the physics
of the quantum field
to the biology of
your body and brain?
In a way, do we have a
built-in radio receiver
that can decode
frequency that's carrying
vital information into
meaningful imagery
in your brain?
In the next episode, we're going
to discuss the sacred science
of the pineal gland.
I'm your host, Dr. Joe
Dispenza, for "Rewired,"
and I hope to see you in
the next episode, where
we go beyond the ordinary
into the extraordinary.